<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			
<h2><i>THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER</i><br/>
<small>THE BARBARY DRAGON</small></h2>
<p class="drop-capi">EVERYTHING would have gone
all right if the pig had not caught
a cold in his head while eating
the damp sugar-cane on the
island. This is what happened:</p>
<p>After they had pulled up the
anchor without a sound, and were moving the
ship very, very carefully out of the bay, Gub-Gub
suddenly sneezed so loud that the pirates
on the other ship came rushing upstairs to see
what the noise was.</p>
<p>As soon as they saw that the Doctor was escaping,
they sailed the other boat right across
the entrance to the bay so that the Doctor could
not get out into the open sea.</p>
<p>Then the leader of these bad men (who called
himself “Ben Ali, The Dragon”) shook his fist
at the Doctor and shouted across the water,</p>
<p>“Ha! Ha! You are caught, my fine friend!
You were going to run off in my ship, eh? But
you are not a good enough sailor to beat Ben
Ali, the Barbary Dragon. I want that duck
you’ve got—and the pig too. We’ll have pork-chops
and roast duck for supper to-night. And
before I let you go home, you must make your
friends send me a trunk-full of gold.”</p>
<p>Poor Gub-Gub began to weep; and Dab-Dab
made ready to fly to save her life. But the owl,
Too-Too, whispered to the Doctor,</p>
<p>“Keep him talking, Doctor. Be pleasant to
him. Our old ship is bound to sink soon—the
rats said it would be at the bottom of the sea before
to-morrow-night—and the rats are never
wrong. Be pleasant, till the ship sinks under
him. Keep him talking.”</p>
<p>“What, until to-morrow night!” said the Doctor.
“Well, I’ll do my best.... Let me see—What
shall I talk about?”</p>
<p>“Oh, let them come on,” said Jip. “We can
fight the dirty rascals. There are only six of
them. Let them come on. I’d love to tell that
collie next door, when we get home, that I had
bitten a real pirate. Let ’em come. We can
fight them.”</p>
<p>“But they have pistols and swords,” said the
Doctor. “No, that would never do. I must
talk to him.... Look here, Ben Ali—”</p>
<p>But before the Doctor could say any more,
the pirates began to sail the ship nearer, laughing
with glee, and saying one to another, “Who
shall be the first to catch the pig?”</p>
<p>Poor Gub-Gub was dreadfully frightened;
and the pushmi-pullyu began to sharpen his
horns for a fight by rubbing them on the mast
of the ship; while Jip kept springing into the
air and barking and calling Ben Ali bad names
in dog-language.</p>
<p>But presently something seemed to go wrong
with the pirates; they stopped laughing and
cracking jokes; they looked puzzled; something
was making them uneasy.</p>
<p>Then Ben Ali, staring down at his feet, suddenly
bellowed out,</p>
<p>“Thunder and Lightning!—Men, <i>the boat’s
leaking</i>!”</p>
<p>And then the other pirates peered over the
side and they saw that the boat was indeed getting
lower and lower in the water. And one
of them said to Ben Ali,</p>
<p>“But surely if this old boat were sinking we
should see the rats leaving it.”</p>
<p>And Jip shouted across from the other ship,</p>
<p>“You great duffers, there are no rats there
to leave! They left two hours ago! ‘Ha, ha,’
to you, ‘my fine friends!’”</p>
<p>But of course the men did not understand him.</p>
<p>Soon the front end of the ship began to go
down and down, faster and faster—till the boat
looked almost as though it were standing on its
head; and the pirates had to cling to the rails
and the masts and the ropes and anything to
keep from sliding off. Then the sea rushed
roaring in through all the windows and the
doors. And at last the ship plunged right down
to the bottom of the sea, making a dreadful
gurgling sound; and the six bad men were left
bobbing about in the deep water of the bay.</p>
<p>Some of them started to swim for the shores
of the island; while others came and tried to get
on to the boat where the Doctor was. But Jip
kept snapping at their noses, so they were afraid
to climb up the side of the ship.</p>
<p>Then suddenly they all cried out in great fear,</p>
<p>“<i>The sharks!</i> The sharks are coming! Let
us get on to the ship before they eat us! Help,
help!—The sharks! The sharks!”</p>
<p>And now the Doctor could see, all over the
bay, the backs of big fishes swimming swiftly
through the water.</p>
<p>And one great shark came near to the ship,
and poking his nose out of the water he said to
the Doctor,</p>
<p>“Are you John Dolittle, the famous animal-doctor?”</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Doctor Dolittle. “That is my
name.”</p>
<p>“Well,” said the shark, “we know these pirates
to be a bad lot—especially Ben Ali. If they
are annoying you, we will gladly eat them up for
you—and then you won’t be troubled any
more.”</p>
<p>“Thank you,” said the Doctor. “This is
really most attentive. But I don’t think it will
be necessary to eat them. Don’t let any of them
reach the shore until I tell you—just keep them
swimming about, will you? And please make
Ben Ali swim over here that I may talk to
him.”</p>
<p>So the shark went off and chased Ben Ali over
to the Doctor.</p>
<p>“Listen, Ben Ali,” said John Dolittle, leaning
over the side. “You have been a very bad
man; and I understand that you have killed
many people. These good sharks here have just
offered to eat you up for me—and ’twould indeed
be a good thing if the seas were rid of you.
But if you will promise to do as I tell you, I
will let you go in safety.”</p>
<p>“What must I do?” asked the pirate, looking
down sideways at the big shark who was smelling
his leg under the water.</p>
<p>“You must kill no more people,” said the
Doctor; “you must stop stealing; you must never
sink another ship; you must give up being a
pirate altogether.”</p>
<p>“But what shall I do then?” asked Ben Ali.
“How shall I live?”</p>
<p>“You and all your men must go on to this
island and be bird-seed-farmers,” the Doctor answered.
“You must grow bird-seed for the
canaries.”</p>
<p>The Barbary Dragon turned pale with anger,
“<i>Grow bird-seed!</i>” he groaned in disgust.
“Can’t I be a sailor?”</p>
<p>“No,” said the Doctor, “you cannot. You
have been a sailor long enough—and sent many
stout ships and good men to the bottom of the
sea. For the rest of your life you must be a
peaceful farmer. The shark is waiting. Do
not waste any more of his time. Make up your
mind.”</p>
<p>“Thunder and Lightning!” Ben Ali muttered—“<i>Bird-seed!</i>”
Then he looked down into the
water again and saw the great fish smelling his
other leg.</p>
<p>“Very well,” he said sadly. “We’ll be farmers.”</p>
<p>“And remember,” said the Doctor, “that if
you do not keep your promise—if you start
killing and stealing again, I shall hear of it,
because the canaries will come and tell me.
And be very sure that I will find a way to punish
you. For though I may not be able to sail
a ship as well as you, so long as the birds and
the beasts and the fishes are my friends, I do not
have to be afraid of a pirate chief—even though
he call himself ‘The Dragon of Barbary.’ Now
go and be a good farmer and live in peace.”</p>
<p>Then the Doctor turned to the big shark, and
waving his hand he said,</p>
<p>“All right. Let them swim safely to the land.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
