<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXI: Home Again</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-21" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Home Again</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>March winds had come and gone; April’s showers were over; May’s buds had opened into flower; and the June sun was shining on the pleasant fields, when John Dolittle at last got back to his own country.</p>
			<p>But he did not yet go home to Puddleby. First he went traveling through the land with the pushmi-pullyu in a gipsy-wagon, stopping at all the country-fairs. And there, with the acrobats on one side of them and the Punch-and-Judy show on the other, they would hang out a big sign which read, “<span class="smcap">Come and See the Marvelous Two-Headed Animal from the Jungles of Africa.</span> Admission <span class="smcap">Sixpence</span>.”</p>
			<p>And the pushmi-pullyu would stay inside the wagon, while the other animals would lie about underneath. The Doctor sat in a chair in front taking the sixpences and smiling on the people as they went in; and Dab-Dab was kept busy all the time scolding him because he would let the children in for nothing when she wasn’t looking.</p>
			<p>And menagerie-keepers and circus-men came and asked the Doctor to sell them the strange creature, saying they would pay a tremendous lot of money for him. But the Doctor always shook his head and said,</p>
			<p>“No. The pushmi-pullyu shall never be shut up in a cage. He shall be free always to come and go, like you and me.”</p>
			<p>Many curious sights and happenings they saw in this wandering life; but they all seemed quite ordinary after the great things they had seen and done in foreign lands. It was very interesting at first, being sort of part of a circus; but after a few weeks they all got dreadfully tired of it and the Doctor and all of them were longing to go home.</p>
			<p>But so many people came flocking to the little wagon and paid the sixpence to go inside and see the pushmi-pullyu that very soon the Doctor was able to give up being a showman.</p>
			<p>And one fine day, when the hollyhocks were in full bloom, he came back to Puddleby a rich man, to live in the little house with the big garden.</p>
			<p>And the old lame horse in the stable was glad to see him; and so were the swallows who had already built their nests under the eaves of his roof and had young ones. And Dab-Dab was glad, too, to get back to the house she knew so well⁠—although there was a terrible lot of dusting to be done, with cobwebs everywhere.</p>
			<p>And after Jip had gone and shown his golden collar to the conceited collie next-door, he came back and began running round the garden like a crazy thing, looking for the bones he had buried long ago, and chasing the rats out of the tool-shed; while Gub-Gub dug up the horseradish which had grown three feet high in the corner by the garden-wall.</p>
			<p>And the Doctor went and saw the sailor who had lent him the boat, and he bought two new ships for him and a rubber-doll for his baby; and he paid the grocer for the food he had lent him for the journey to Africa. And he bought another piano and put the white mice back in it⁠—because they said the bureau-drawer was drafty.</p>
			<p>Even when the Doctor had filled the old money-box on the dresser-shelf, he still had a lot of money left; and he had to get three more money-boxes, just as big, to put the rest in.</p>
			<p>“Money,” he said, “is a terrible nuisance. But it’s nice not to have to worry.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Dab-Dab, who was toasting muffins for his tea, “it is indeed!”</p>
			<p>And when the Winter came again, and the snow flew against the kitchen-window, the Doctor and his animals would sit round the big, warm fire after supper; and he would read aloud to them out of his books.</p>
			<p>But far away in Africa, where the monkeys chattered in the palm-trees before they went to bed under the big yellow moon, they would say to one another,</p>
			<p>“I wonder what The Good Man’s doing now⁠—over there, in the Land of the White Men! Do you think he ever will come back?”</p>
			<p>And Polynesia would squeak out from the vines,</p>
			<p>“I think he will⁠—I guess he will⁠—I hope he will!”</p>
			<p>And then the crocodile would grunt up at them from the black mud of the river,</p>
			<p>“I’m <strong>sure</strong> he will⁠—Go to sleep!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
